Overview
========

There is a [user guide](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/wiki/Csharp-User-Guide) for people who wish
to use the csharp generator.  This document is to assist developers working on the the SBE C# generator itself.


Environment
-----------
Java and gradlew are used to build the generator.

git bash and shell scripts are used for scripting.

The csharp code is built using Visual Studio Community 2017.

Code Layout
-----------
The Java code that performs the generation of C# code is
[here](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/tree/master/sbe-tool/src/main/java/uk/co/real_logic/sbe/generation/csharp).

    $ ./gradlew                       # Will build sbe-tool jar
    $ ./gradlew generateCSharpCodecs  # will generate the test, benchmark, and example C# code

The [Visual Studio 2017 Community
solution](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/blob/master/csharp/csharp.sln) provides the projects:
 * sbe-dll (for common marshalling and DirectBuffer functionality)
 * sbe-generated (containing C# code generated by sbe-tool)
 * sbe-tests (an mstest suite for unit testing)
 * sbe-benchmarks (for performance testing and tuning)
 * sbe-example-car (sample code based on the Car example)
 * sbe-example-extension (sample code based on the Car extension)
 
Roadmap
-------
The csharp generator is as of May 2017 a preview release. API stability is not guaranteed. Documentation is a work in progress. The current roadmap contains: 

 * Documentation
 * Testing/bug fixes
 * Better nuget Packaging 
 * Dotnet core support (The code is known to work but is not built/distributed for dotnet core)
 * Possible changes to make soem objects iterable


Want to build things yourself?
------------------------------

For now you can:
 * build the SBE csharp generator using `gradlew`
 * generate the csharp codecs using `gradlew GenerateCSharpCodecs`
 * Use the [Visual Studio 2017 Community solution](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/blob/master/csharp/csharp.sln) to build the solution, run the unit tests, examples and benchmarks
 * Use the bash script [runtests.sh](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/blob/master/csharp/runtests.sh) to run the tests
 * Build the nuget package via [do-release.sh](https://github.com/real-logic/simple-binary-encoding/blob/master/csharp/.nuget/do-release.sh) although this remains a largely manual process.
